<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 17</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<A NAME="chap17"/>
			<H3 ALIGN="center"> CHAPTER XVII </H3>
			<H3 ALIGN="center"> OF A SENTIMENTAL NATURE </H3>
			<P> She was wearing a panama, and she carried a sketching-block and camp-stool. </P>
			<P> "Good evening," I said. </P>
			<P> "Good evening," said she. </P>
			<P> It is curious how different the same words can sound, when spoken by different people. My "good evening" might have been that of a man with a particularly guilty conscience caught in the act of doing something more than usually ignoble. She spoke like a rather offended angel. </P>
			<P> "It's a lovely evening," I went on pluckily. </P>
			<P> "Very." </P>
			<P> "The sunset!" </P>
			<P> "Yes." </P>
			<P> "Er—" </P>
			<P> She raised a pair of blue eyes, devoid of all expression save a faint suggestion of surprise, and gazed through me for a moment at some object a couple of thousand miles away, and lowered them again, leaving me with a vague feeling that there was something wrong with my personal appearance. </P>
			<P> Very calmly she moved to the edge of the cliff, arranged her camp-stool, and sat down. Neither of us spoke a word. I watched her while she filled a little mug with water from a little bottle, opened her paint-box, selected a brush, and placed her sketching-block in position. </P>
			<P> She began to paint. </P>
			<P> Now, by all the laws of good taste, I should before this have made a dignified exit. It was plain that I was not to be regarded as an essential ornament of this portion of the Ware Cliff. By now, if I had been the Perfect Gentleman, I ought to have been a quarter of a mile away. </P>
			<P> But there is a definite limit to what a man can do. I remained. </P>
			<P> The sinking sun flung a carpet of gold across the sea. Phyllis' hair was tinged with it. Little waves tumbled lazily on the beach below. Except for the song of a distant blackbird, running through its repertoire before retiring for the night, everything was silent. </P>
			<P> She sat there, dipping and painting and dipping again, with never a word for me—standing patiently and humbly behind her. </P>
			<P> "Miss Derrick," I said. </P>
			<P> She half turned her head. </P>
			<P> "Yes." </P>
			<P> "Why won't you speak to me?" I said. </P>
			<P> "I don't understand you." </P>
			<P> "Why won't you speak to me?" </P>
			<P> "I think you know, Mr. Garnet." </P>
			<P> "It is because of that boat accident?" </P>
			<P> "Accident!" </P>
			<P> "Episode," I amended. </P>
			<P> She went on painting in silence. From where I stood I could see her profile. Her chin was tilted. Her expression was determined. </P>
			<P> "Is it?" I said. </P>
			<P> "Need we discuss it?" </P>
			<P> "Not if you do not wish it." </P>
			<P> I paused. </P>
			<P> "But," I added, "I should have liked a chance to defend myself.... What glorious sunsets there have been these last few days. I believe we shall have this sort of weather for another month." </P>
			<P> "I should not have thought that possible." </P>
			<P> "The glass is going up," I said. </P>
			<P> "I was not talking about the weather." </P>
			<P> "It was dull of me to introduce such a worn-out topic." </P>
			<P> "You said you could defend yourself." </P>
			<P> "I said I should like the chance to do so." </P>
			<P> "You have it." </P>
			<P> "That's very kind of you. Thank you." </P>
			<P> "Is there any reason for gratitude?" </P>
			<P> "Every reason." </P>
			<P> "Go on, Mr. Garnet. I can listen while I paint. But please sit down. I don't like being talked to from a height." </P>
			<P> I sat down on the grass in front of her, feeling as I did so that the change of position in a manner clipped my wings. It is difficult to speak movingly while sitting on the ground. Instinctively I avoided eloquence. Standing up, I might have been pathetic and pleading. Sitting down, I was compelled to be matter-of-fact. </P>
			<P> "You remember, of course, the night you and Professor Derrick dined with us? When I say dined, I use the word in a loose sense." </P>
			<P> For a moment I thought she was going to smile. We were both thinking of Edwin. But it was only for a moment, and then her face grew cold once more, and the chin resumed its angle of determination. </P>
			<P> "Yes," she said. </P>
			<P> "You remember the unfortunate ending of the festivities?" </P>
			<P> "Well?" </P>
			<P> "If you recall that at all clearly, you will also remember that the fault was not mine, but Ukridge's." </P>
			<P> "Well?" </P>
			<P> "It was his behaviour that annoyed Professor Derrick. The position, then, was this, that I was to be cut off from the pleasantest friendship I had ever formed——" </P>
			<P> I stopped for a moment. She bent a little lower over her easel, but remained silent. </P>
			<P> "——Simply through the tactlessness of a prize idiot." </P>
			<P> "I like Mr. Ukridge." </P>
			<P> "I like him, too. But I can't pretend that he is anything but an idiot at times." </P>
			<P> "Well?" </P>
			<P> "I naturally wished to mend matters. It occurred to me that an excellent way would be by doing your father a service. It was seeing him fishing that put the idea of a boat-accident into my head. I hoped for a genuine boat-accident. But those things only happen when one does not want them. So I determined to engineer one." </P>
			<P> "You didn't think of the shock to my father." </P>
			<P> "I did. It worried me very much." </P>
			<P> "But you upset him all the same." </P>
			<P> "Reluctantly." </P>
			<P> She looked up, and our eyes met. I could detect no trace of forgiveness in hers. </P>
			<P> "You behaved abominably," she said. </P>
			<P> "I played a risky game, and I lost. And I shall now take the consequences. With luck I should have won. I did not have luck, and I am not going to grumble about it. But I am grateful to you for letting me explain. I should not have liked you to have gone on thinking that I played practical jokes on my friends. That is all I have to say. I think it was kind of you to listen. Good-bye, Miss Derrick." </P>
			<P> I got up. </P>
			<P> "Are you going?" </P>
			<P> "Why not?" </P>
			<P> "Please sit down again." </P>
			<P> "But you wish to be alone——" </P>
			<P> "Please sit down!" </P>
			<P> There was a flush on the cheek turned towards me, and the chin was tilted higher. </P>
			<P> I sat down. </P>
			<P> To westward the sky had changed to the hue of a bruised cherry. The sun had sunk below the horizon, and the sea looked cold and leaden. The blackbird had long since flown. </P>
			<P> "I am glad you told me, Mr. Garnet." </P>
			<P> She dipped her brush in the water. </P>
			<P> "Because I don't like to think badly of—people." </P>
			<P> She bent her head over her painting. </P>
			<P> "Though I still think you behaved very wrongly. And I am afraid my father will never forgive you for what you did." </P>
			<P> Her father! As if he counted. </P>
			<P> "But you do?" I said eagerly. </P>
			<P> "I think you are less to blame than I thought you were at first." </P>
			<P> "No more than that?" </P>
			<P> "You can't expect to escape all consequences. You did a very stupid thing." </P>
			<P> "I was tempted." </P>
			<P> The sky was a dull grey now. It was growing dusk. The grass on which I sat was wet with dew. </P>
			<P> I stood up. </P>
			<P> "Isn't it getting a little dark for painting?" I said. "Are you sure you won't catch cold? It's very damp." </P>
			<P> "Perhaps it is. And it is late, too." </P>
			<P> She shut her paint-box, and emptied the little mug on to the grass. </P>
			<P> "May I carry your things?" I said. </P>
			<P> I think she hesitated, but only for a moment. </P>
			<P> I possessed myself of the camp-stool, and we started on our homeward journey. </P>
			<P> We were both silent. The spell of the quiet summer evening was on us. </P>
			<P> "'And all the air a solemn stillness holds,'" she said softly. "I love this cliff, Mr. Garnet. It's the most soothing place in the world." </P>
			<P> "I found it so this evening." </P>
			<P> She glanced at me quickly. </P>
			<P> "You're not looking well," she said. "Are you sure you are not overworking yourself?" </P>
			<P> "No, it's not that." </P>
			<P> Somehow we had stopped, as if by agreement, and were facing each other. There was a look in her eyes I had never seen there before. The twilight hung like a curtain between us and the world. We were alone together in a world of our own. </P>
			<P> "It is because I had offended you," I said. </P>
			<P> She laughed a high, unnatural laugh. </P>
			<P> "I have loved you ever since I first saw you," I said doggedly. </P>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
